Welcome everyone to this lecture on fut. on Quanto open in this lecture we're going to basically be
messing around for research in a book on the Quanto open platform and showing you how you can work with
futures contracts on the Quanto open platform.
So let's open up our browser and open up and you know book in Quanto.
OK here I am a Jupiter note book on Quanto in as a quick note.
There are going to be a lot of sources of information in the note book that corresponds to this lecture.
So here in the new tab I have open the notebook that we provide because there there's a lot of useful
lists here that we can't really like type out for you live.
So I might be hopping back and forth to this tab to show you things like a list of all the available
features on Quanto in the for now the top over back to this notebook and do a couple of basic imports
are going to be using.
And these are all ones you're already familiar with some pie Pandurs.
And then we'll also important that plotless
all right.
So remember that a reference to a futures contract can be obtained via the symbols function in futures
contracts are noted by a base symbol Plus a code for the month and year or of delivery.
So for example if we come over here you have all the available futures you'll notice some of these are
commodities futures some of these are futures based on some sort of index or volatility index et cetera
and we'll discuss later on the differences between them.
There's also currency futures but we'll kind of focus just on commodity futures.
Those are the easiest to understand because it's something physical.
But again futures contracts use the symbols function.
And you have a base symbol Plus a code for the month year of delivery.
So here something like CNF 16 is a contract for crude oil.
So if you come down here and eventually search for crude oil you'll find that C-L is on this list somewhere
around here.
And then once you have the actual commodity or you know contract future you want to trade then you say
the month and then the year.
So January has the month.
2016 is just 16.
So if we come down here a little more there's a list a day in time codes for you.
So you can see every single month has its own particular letter code.
So we're going to do is try to grab natural gas for some maturity date in January 2018.
So if you're reviewing this lecture in the future you may need to change your actual times.
So right now I'm kind of in mid 2017 while I'm filming this.
If you already are way into the future when you're watching this video maybe it's like mid 2018 you
may need to change some of these times for them to make sense to you otherwise you'd just be looking
at futures contracts that have already expired.
So we'll come over here to the notebooks and let's go ahead and grab the future contract data for natural
gas with the maturity of January 2018.
So I say future contract is equal to.
And then I use this symbol's function and then I'm going to pass in my code so the code for natural
gas is ngi and then I end up wanting in January 2018.
So I say F 18 run that and eventually grabbed the information of the future contract so future contract
you can check a bunch of attributes here such as asset name and this sort of thing is one of the very
first things we did when we were learning about research on Quanto Appian.
And remember if we wanted to see everything that was in the future contract we ended up doing was a
little for loop.
So I said something like four key in feature contract and we can pass this as a dictionary that I could
print out the key I could print out the future contracts dictionary value at that key and then we could
print out a new line and make sure that's some princes there.
So I can run that so I can see the root symbol the tick size and the exchange it's listed on which is
in New York.
Basically the mercantile exchange that we have the symbol the multiplier et cetera.
So just a bunch of information and then you also have the security ID here that you can reference for
it.
So obviously a long number here.
OK.
So let's actually see what this looks like by kind of plotting out its price.
So to get its price we're going to use the get pricing function that we've used earlier so it's a feature
position value is equal to get pricing and then I'm going to pass in my future contract because it basically
already has that security information and then I'm going to person a start date.
Of 2017 0 1 0 1 and then an end dates.
Let's go ahead and say 2018.
0 1 0 1 and the field I want or fields I want is price and you can copy and paste this from the notes
because there is a lot of text here that we're typing out.
It's really easy to make typos or just I would recommend is copy and paste it from the notes.
Make sure you don't accidentally have a typo somewhere.
So we're going to do is offer this features position value.
I'm going to go ahead and just say the name of it.
Is equal to the future position value.
Name that symbol.
So that basically just gives us a nice title on our plot when we're about to plot this out to then I
say futures position value that plot.
And if I run this I can see I have a nice plot of the price versus the time and this price is per some
unit of natural gas.
So another really useful thing we can do is get historical data and that will basically give us a data
frame that we can play around with and plot out.
So we're going to do is say from Quanto up in loop's not quando Quanto in the research that experimental
and the actual import location may change in the future once this is no longer experimental so keep
that in mind.
I'm going to import history and just so you can kind of see what history is about.
You can say history the under underscore the see underscore underscore and this basically just prints
out the documentation for this history object.
And it just loads a table of historical data.
We've used this before it's really similar to that data that history function that we use in the ID
you pasand some symbol the fields you want price open price volume etc. the frequency start date end
date symbol reference how you handle missing data etc..
So lots of stuff you can do here.
We're kind of already familiar with this given that we've worked with data like history before.
So let's actually say natural gas F 18.
So remember that's the natural gas futures contract for January.
That's the F code 18 is equal to future contract.
And the reason I'm just essentially relabelling future contract is so one I don't have to type as much.
And also it's a little more clear when I'm actually working with.
So this is kind of just for convenience.
Cell Number eight.
OK so let's actually grab some historical data on natural gas futures for January 2018.
So I'll say ngi F-18 underscored data this is going to be a data frame we're going to grab our history
function that we just import it and we're going to pass in our future contracts with this future contract
right here that we got earlier get pricing on the symbols excuse me and then we're going to do is pass
in the fields we want.
So I'm going to ask for several fields.
I'll ask for a price.
In fact I'm going to ask for all of them so I'm going to just copy and paste it from here.
So we're going to say price open price volume contract and this has curly braces for a dictionary that's
actually not what we want.
We want a list so don't copy those just have them in kind of the square brackets for a list.
So those are all the fields I want basically to grab everything I'm going to specify that the frequency
of the data I want is just daily definitely don't want to get overloaded with minute by minute information.
And then I'm going to set a start day let's say 2017 06 or 1.
And again the pending or what time in the future are you watching this lecture video you may have to
kind of play around with these technically should be able to do all the same data I'm doing but just
keep that in mind and let's go up to August 1st so basically just two months of data here.
I'm going to run this and once that has grabbed my data for me I'm going to call for the data frame.
And as you can imagine it's probably a really large data frame salaciously the head of it.
And here we go.
So I can see right here I have the time stamp the price the open price that time the high price the
low price closing price the volume traded on that day and then the actual kind of official label that
futures contract which is natural gas January 2018 as well as that security ID.
OK.
So let's start plotting some of this out so we can get a look at some of this behavior.
Let's go ahead and see the volume traded.
So say natural gas generating data and I'm just going to grab the volume column.
This is just simple Panas code.
And then I'm going to plot this out so this will plot out based on kind of a dot to line to dot to line.
I actually like for volume since it's essentially kind of almost categorical per day.
We usually set this as some sort of bar plot and then this usually makes a lot more sense so I can see
that the total volume traded on this day happens to be almost 6000 et cetera.
You can see some days when it was higher and then some days when it was lower and noticed this day in
particular is really really low.
And if you kind of take a look at it it happens to be July 4th which is a national holiday in United
States which is why there's almost no trading activity and you probably get almost no trading activity
for most features especially those based in the U.S..
So what we're going to do now is compare different maturity dates.
Right now we're only dealing with a natural gas future that matures on January 20 18th.
Let's go ahead and see the kind of pricing behavior for crop across different maturity dates.
So to do that I'm going to make a list of contracts we'll call these natural gas contracts and the symbols
functions actually really flexible.
It can take in a list of symbols not just a single symbol.
And we discussed that earlier on but we haven't really implemented it.
So let's go ahead and say natural gas 17 January 17.
So at the time in Filomena's this has already passed but we are going to grab historical information
off of this and then I'm going to basically just grab a couple of months worth of data for early 2017.
So I'm going to kind of keep copy and paste this go ahead and grab kind of six consecutive months of
data.
So I have one two three one two three.
And then the thing I'm going to change right now these are all at January 2017.
I'm going to change the month codes.
So G is for February.
H is for March and they said are you going to keep going forward in time.
Okay.
And then.
So again that middle letter that I'm changing.
If you come back to the notebook I'm just changing it to these codes.
So right now what I'm going to do is grab a bunch of contracts for different maturity dates.
So January 2017 February 2017 March 2017 April 2017 and then May 2017 and at the time of filming these
have actually all expired.
So we'll be able to see the price go up and then come back down as it expires or at least the volume
of trading not the price itself the price won't come down to zero but the volume of trading will come
down to zero which makes sense because you're not going to trade a future after it's matured OK once
we've done that.
We're going to create some sort of new data frame we'll call it natural gas.
And let's just call it consecutive contracts and I will mention the volume right now so I'll just say
volume going to pass in the history function I get a pass in that list of contracts that I just made
there's natural gas contracts.
And as far as the fields I want I'm just interested in the volume field.
So we're going to see how volume kind of changes as the maturity date changes.
And then we're going to ask for frequency to be daily data and let's go ahead and give a start date
and we're actually going to get the start date almost like half a year earlier or let's say even just
a year earlier.
So let's have our start go from January 1st 2016.
So again the very first futures contract I'm grabbing right now ends or matures on January 2017.
I'm saying grab me the volume data a year in advance of that.
So you can start treating these futures ahead of time much further in advance which makes sense.
The whole point of a futures contract.
So that's why I kind of have a start date that goes way beyond that are way before the actual maturity
date.
And then we're going to end.
And then we'll say 2017.
And let's just say 0 8 0 1 like August 1st that we can see all of these kind of dropped down to zero.
So this is way past the end of this one because this one matured in May Okay.
So I grabbed all my contracts and now let's go ahead and plot them out or say natural gas consecutive
contract volume.
Let's go ahead and plot it and see what it looks like.
All right so now we can see the actual volume being traded per future contract.
And this is really typical behavior where you kind of see a jump and then come back down as it reaches
the maturity date and you can see all of these come back up then come back down come back up come back
down.
And the reason I wanted to grab everything from January 2016 is you can see there's actually some light
activity almost a year in advance of the maturity date.
And as you get closer and closer the volume is being traded as people speculate on the price and have
more information closer ties to the price.
Obviously as you get closer to that maturity date you have a better and better idea of what the actual
market price is going to be for whatever contract you're actually trading.
So let's go ahead and kind of cut this off to when the activity gets really hot maybe around October
2016.
So I'm going to copy and paste this Slyne but I'm going to set an excellent on this.
So say X limit and we'll say 2016.
Just say October 1st.
So that's kind of around this market can kind of see it start to pick up and for the end we'll just
say let's keep the same and so we can see them all drop off which is August of 2017.
You can even do a month before that if you really want it to.
So we're going to plot that out.
So the limits here and now I see this behavior which is really again typical.
So we can see here that trading activity in terms of volume jumps from one contract to the next.
And these transitions happen just prior to the delivery date of each contract.
Now this particular phenomenon actually makes it difficult to work with fut. because maybe you're trading
a particular future or maybe you want to kind of have futures being traded on a more continuous time
skill but unfortunately a future will come up in volume traded and then drastically drop down.
And then finally go to zero.
Once it reached the maturity date you can see here all these zero marks or the monthly marks when that
particular contract has matured.
So because this particular aspect of fut. the fact that they kind of come up and then come down makes
it difficult and it makes a little bit of a hassle.
What we can do is we can actually have some sort of underlying future and we're going to call that future
a continuous future and a continuous future is essential is going to be an abstraction over the underlying
either commodities assets or in the seas of futures.
So we're going to go ahead and cover that in the very next lecture and it's going to allow us to kind
of see a more continuous behavior off all of these and there's different times where you can kind of
switch off from one future contract to the next feature contract.
We are not dealing with this kind of weird behavior of up and then back down up and then back down.
Okay.
So we're going to cover continue futures in the very next lecture.
But let me give you a quick review of everything we just did here.
So scrolling back up to the top so you have these future contracts and you can just use symbols to actually
grab the information off of them.
And again probably the most important part of all this is you have the name of either the commodity
or the underlying asset the month and then the Year of the maturity.
And if you want the codes for all this go ahead and visit the notebook right now.
This is a list of all the available futures on Quanto Appian.
This may expand or may decrease.
Always reference the documentation and then down again on the notebook we provide there is a list of
time codes.
So when you have those you can go ahead and build out your future contract.
You can see there's a bunch of information here.
Asset name expiration date etc. you can kind of use get pricing to get pricing information off of this
or if you want historical information you can use history function to essentially grab all the information
that's available.
Price open high low close volume and contract and the contract is just a particular label on what actual
particular contract we're dealing with.
And you'll see when we do have continuous feature that Colin's going to become a lot more important.
And here we can see kind of plotting out how volume is being traded for a particular future time.
And then here we can see a bunch of continuous fut. or I should say a consecutive futures excuse me.
So a bunch of consecutive futures here.
So we have January February March April etc. and we can see how as far as volume activity they increase
in volume activity more and more as they get closer to the date of maturity.
And then at a certain point once it becomes clear that kind of your speculation is going to match the
market price.
This is about a month in advance at least for natural gas.
It starts to come back down and it eventually just goes to zero because it reached maturity date.
So you're no longer going to be trading.
And again this is volume not price.
Okay.
So in order to kind of deal the situation we're going to learn about continuous futures in the next
lecture.
I'll see if there.